# Personal-Work
This repository consists of a collection of code from various assignments in some of the Computer Science courses I have taken at Caltech, as well as code from other projects, including ones from my Summer research.

NOTE: Not all of the code from college courses in this repository is mine. Intermixed with the code that I have written are samples of test code and template code which were provided along with the assignment. In most folders, it should be clearly delineated within the files which code is mine and which code is not. If a file does not have a comment at the start which indicates that it was written by someone other than Louis Santos, it is safe to assume that I wrote all of the code in said file. I have left the supplied code intact, for it is needed in order to run the program (if you so choose). Particularly for my Algorithms and Data Structures class, a lot of more basic code was supplied so that we students could focus on the algorithms of interest.

That said, the samples of code enclosed give some insight into my experience. Right off the bat, I would say that the SURF 2018 and Game of Life directories are the most interesting. Game of Life is a personal project I have been toying with, trying to add features. SURF 2018 is my summer work which involved working on an astronomy data reduction pipeline. Just about all of the code in SURF 2018 is mine (some came from the research group I worked with. It is clearly marked.). All of the Game of Life code is mine.
